Hello.
Welcome to this module about the system testing.
After having introduced and discussed integration testing
as combined units working together, it is time now to see everything as a whole.
This is our objective for this module.
Let's go for it.
This module will focus on showing what system testing means,
how to make the step from integration testing to system testing and
which techniques are suitable for system testing.
First, we'll define and modify the system testing.
We understand what contract testing is and more exactly
what consumer-driven contract means.
We'll then move back to the flights management application
to put in practice the concepts by extending the testing
at the level of the system,
by mocking the behavior of provider service as long as it is under construction
following a contract so that we can use it for our consumer.
On the consumer side,
we'll gradually replace the mock provider with the real one.
So what does it mean to perform system testing?
System testing means to test the complete and integrated software.
Why?
In order to evaluate the system's compliance with the specified
requirements having which objective to detect inconsistencies
between units that are integrated together.
Common cases of using a test double are when you are communicating
with an external service or with an internal one,
but which is not yet available.
This kind of service may be maintained by the different team.
They may be slow or difficult to access or it may take
some time until becoming fully available.
That's why test doubles are handy.
They stop your own test from waiting for the availability of the service,
but testing against a double always raises some problems.
Are the doubles an accurate representation of the external service?
What happens if the external service changes its contract?
If we are in the situation to work with a slow or a difficult to access service,
a good idea is to try to periodically run the tests against the real system.
It may take some time,
but probably it can be done at night or during less crowded periods,
and in case a failure,
it helps you understand that the test doubles need to be updated to
return the appropriate results or maybe our code needs to take into
account the service contract change,
especially when the dependent component is built in parallel.
In order to reduce the chances of unexpected breaks in contracts,
it's useful to move to a consumer-driven contract approach.
The provider may get copies of the contract tests so they can follow some API,
some behavior, or even run them as part of their build pipeline.
So we'll use some test double to test against until we
can do this against the real service, but how exactly does this work?
We may run isolated tests between the consumer and the mock provider
and/or between the real provider and the mock consumer.
A set of tests may be between the consumer and the provider mock.
The consumer service is started up and triggered so that it
sends some requests to a provider mock.
The provider mock changed their requests and answered with some
predefined responses according to the contract.
Another set of tests may be between the provider and the consumer mock.
The mock consumer is given the request according to the contract,
and simply sends them against the provider service.
The mock consumer then checks if the provider's responses follow
the expectations as defined in the contract.
We are going to place ourselves on the consumer side,
the developers working on the application and that are receiving the implementation of the external service.